README.md, before:

# strong_type
An additive strong typedef library for C++14/17/20 using the
Boost Software License 1.0

[![CI Build Status](https://github.com/rollbear/strong_type/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rollbear/strong_type/actions/workflows/ci.yml)

Very much inspired by [@foonathan's](https://twitter.com/foonathan)
[`type_safe`](https://github.com/foonathan/type_safe) library, but aim is
slightly different. Limit scope for type safety only. No runtime checks. Also
strive for a higher level abstraction of the needed functionality. The idea
is to suffer no runtime penalty, but to capture misuse at compile time
(for example accidentally subtracting from a handle, or swapping two parameters
in a function call) while still being easy to use for inexperienced
programmers.

Example use:

```Cpp
#include <strong_type.hpp>
using myint = strong::type<int, struct my_int_>;
```

`myint` is a very basic handle. You can initialize it. You can do
equal/not-equal comparison with other instances of the same type, and you can
access its underlying `int` instance with `value_of(variable)`.

To get the underlying type of a strong type, use
`typename strong::underlying_type<mytype>::type`, or the convenience alias
`strong::underlying_type_t<mytype>`. If `mytype` is not a `strong::type`,
they give `mytype`.

```Cpp
using otherint = strong::type<int, struct other_int_>;
```

`otherint` is a distinct type from `myint`. If a function takes an argument of
type `myint`, you can't pass it an instance of `otherint`, and vice-versa. You
also can't cross-assign, cross-create or cross-compare.

To access more functionality, you add modifiers. For example:

```Cpp
using ordered_int = strong::type<int, struct ordered_int_, strong::ordered>;
```

Type `ordered_int` now supports relational order comparisons, like `<`,
(provided the underlying type, int this case `int`, does.) Type `ordered_int`
can thus be used as key in `std::map`<> or `std::set<>`.

## Modifiers are:

* `strong::default_constructible`. The strong type is not default constructible
  by default. This modifier enables a default constructor which uses a default
  constructor of the underlying type.

* `strong::equality` provides operators `==` and `!=`. The strong type can be
  then compared for equality or inequality.

* `strong::equality_with<Ts...>` provides operators `==` and `!=` between the
  strong type and each of the types `Ts...`. Note! While `Ts` can include
  other strong types, it can not refer to the strong type being defined. Use
  `strong::equality` for that.

* `strong::ordered` provides operators '<', '<=', '>=' and '>'. The strong type
  offers the same ordering relatin as the underlying type.

* `strong::ordered_with<Ts...>` provides operators '<', '<=', '>=' and '>'
  between the strong type and each of the types `Ts...`. Note! While `Ts` can
  include other strong types, it cannot refer to the strong type being defined.
  Use `strong::ordered` for that.
  
* `strong::semiregular`. This gives you default constructible, move/copy
  constructible, move/copy assignable and swappable. A decent default for
  many types.

* `strong::regular`. Same as `semiregular` and also equality comparable. A good
  default base for most types.

* `strong::unique`. Make the type move constructible and move assignable but
  not copy constructible nor copy assignable.
  
* `strong::ostreamable`, `strong::istreamable`, `strong::iostreamable`, which
  provide the default iostream integrations (as handled by the underlying
  type.) Provide your own operators instead if you prefer that.

* `strong::incrementable`, `strong::decrementable`, `strong::bicrementable`.
  Support `operator++` and `operator--`. *bicrementable* is obviously a made-
  up word for the occasion, but I think its meaning is clear.

* `strong::boolean` provides `explicit operator bool() const`, providing the
  underlying type supports it.

* `strong::convertible_to<Ts...>` provides an `explicit operator Ts() const`
   for each type `Ts`, providing the underlying type supports it.

* `strong::implicitly_convertible_to<Ts...>` provides an `operator Ts() const`
   for each type `Ts`, providing the underlying type supports it.
   
* `strong::hashable` allows `std::hash<>` on the type (forwards to the
  underlying type,) to allow use in `std::unordered_set<>` and
  `std::unordered_map<>`

* `strong::difference` allows instances to be subtracted and added (yielding a
  `strong::difference`,) divided (yielding the base type), or multiplied or
  divided with the base type, yielding another `strong::difference`, and if 
  the underlying type supports it, the remainder after division of two
  differences yields the underlying type, and the remainder after division of
  a difference and the underlying type yields a difference.
  A `strong::difference` is also `strong::ordered`

* `strong::affine_point<D>` allows instances to be subtracted (yielding a `D`) or
  to add or subtract a `D` to an instance.
  See [Affine Space](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Affine_space). Examples of
  one dimentional affine points are pointer (with `D` being `ptrdiff_t`,) or
  `std::time_point<>` (with `std::duration<>` as `D`.) An example of a
  multidimensional affine point is a coordinate (with a vector type for `D`.)
  It is natural that `D` is of a `strong::difference` type. This is a good name
  from a mathematical point of view, but perhaps a bit too academic, and not
  well aligned with the other names.

* `strong::pointer` allows `operator*` and `operator->`, and comparisons with
  `nullptr` providing the underlying type supports it.

* `strong::arithmetic` allows addition, subtraction, multiplication, division
  and remainder of instances.

* `strong::bitarithmetic` allows bitwise `&`, bitwise `|`, bitwise `^` and
  shift operations.

* `strong::indexed<D>` allows use of the subscript operator[] on type `D`.
  This also allows member function `at(D)`, providing the underlying type
  supports it. A lame version `indexed<>` allows subscript on any type that
  works.

* `strong::iterator` adds functionality needed depending on iterator category.
  If the iterator type is a `random_access_iterator`, the strong type
  is `strong::indexed<>` and `strong::affine_point<difference_type>`. It should be
  possible to specify the index type and affine_point type.

* `strong::range` adds the functionality needed to iterate over the elements.
  the iterator types are using the same tag as using in the range. Only
  implements types `iterator` and `const_iterator`, and thus `.begin()`,
  `.end()`, `.cbegin()`, `.cend()`, `.begin() const` and `.end() const`.
    
For modifier `strong::arithmetic`, the type trait `std::is_arithmetic<>` is true.

For modifier `strong::iterator`, the type trait `std::iterator_traits` mirrors
the traits of the underlying iterator type.

# Miscellaneous:
* `strong::type` provides a non-member `swap()` function as a friend, which
   swaps underlying values using.
  
* `strong::underlying_type<Type>` is `T` for `strong::type<T, Tag, Ms...>` and
   public descendants, and `Type` for other types.
      
* `strong::uninitialized` can be used to construct instances of `strong::type<T...>`
  without initializing the value. This is only possible if the underlying type
  is [`trivially default constructible`](
  https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/default_constructor), for example:
  ```C++
  void init(int*);
  void function() {
      strong::type<int, struct int_tag> x(strong::uninitialized);
      // x will have an unspecified value
      init(&value_of(x)); // hopefully the init() function assigns a value
  }
  ```
  
To build the self-test program:

```bash
cmake <strong_type_dir> -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
cmake --build . --target self_test
```

N.B. Microsoft Visual Studio MSVC compiler < 19.22 does not handle `constexpr`
correctly. Those found to cause trouble are disabled for those versions.

## Other libraries:
 
| Library                                             | Author |
|-----------------------------------------------------|-------------------|
| [type_safe](https://github.com/foonathan/type_safe) | Jonathan Müller   |
| [NamedType](https://github.com/joboccara/NamedType) | Jonathan Boccara  |
| [strong_typedef](https://github.com/anthonywilliams/strong_typedef) | Anthony Williams (justsoftwaresolutions) |

## Presentations about defining and using strong types

|   |   |
|---|---|
| [![Strong Types for Strong Interfaces](https://img.youtube.com/vi/WVleZqzTw2k/mqdefault.jpg)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/WVleZqzTw2k/mqdefault.jpg) | Jonathan Boccara from MeetingC++ 2017 |
| [![Strong Types in C++](https://img.youtube.com/vi/fWcnp7Bulc8/mqdefault.jpg)](https://youtu.be/fWcnp7Bulc8) | Barney Dellar from C++OnSea 2019 |
| [![Type Safe C++? - LOL! - ;-)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/SWHvNvY-PHw/mqdefault.jpg)](https://youtu.be/SWHvNvY-PHw) | Björn Fahller from ACCU 2018 |
| [![Curiously Coupled Types](https://img.youtube.com/vi/msi4WNQZyWs/mqdefault.jpg)](https://youtu.be/msi4WNQZyWs) | Adi Shavit & Björn Fahller from NDC{Oslo} 2019 |

Discussions, pull-requests, flames are welcome.

[@bjorn_fahller](https://twitter.com/bjorn_fahller)

Commit message:

affine_point<> creates a default difference type using the same tag

README.md, after:

# strong_type
An additive strong typedef library for C++14/17/20 using the
Boost Software License 1.0

[![CI Build Status](https://github.com/rollbear/strong_type/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/rollbear/strong_type/actions/workflows/ci.yml)

Very much inspired by [@foonathan's](https://twitter.com/foonathan)
[`type_safe`](https://github.com/foonathan/type_safe) library, but aim is
slightly different. Limit scope for type safety only. No runtime checks. Also
strive for a higher level abstraction of the needed functionality. The idea
is to suffer no runtime penalty, but to capture misuse at compile time
(for example accidentally subtracting from a handle, or swapping two parameters
in a function call) while still being easy to use for inexperienced
programmers.

Example use:

```Cpp
#include <strong_type.hpp>
using myint = strong::type<int, struct my_int_>;
```

`myint` is a very basic handle. You can initialize it. You can do
equal/not-equal comparison with other instances of the same type, and you can
access its underlying `int` instance with `value_of(variable)`.

To get the underlying type of a strong type, use
`typename strong::underlying_type<mytype>::type`, or the convenience alias
`strong::underlying_type_t<mytype>`. If `mytype` is not a `strong::type`,
they give `mytype`.

```Cpp
using otherint = strong::type<int, struct other_int_>;
```

`otherint` is a distinct type from `myint`. If a function takes an argument of
type `myint`, you can't pass it an instance of `otherint`, and vice-versa. You
also can't cross-assign, cross-create or cross-compare.

To access more functionality, you add modifiers. For example:

```Cpp
using ordered_int = strong::type<int, struct ordered_int_, strong::ordered>;
```

Type `ordered_int` now supports relational order comparisons, like `<`,
(provided the underlying type, int this case `int`, does.) Type `ordered_int`
can thus be used as key in `std::map`<> or `std::set<>`.

## Modifiers are:

* `strong::default_constructible`. The strong type is not default constructible
  by default. This modifier enables a default constructor which uses a default
  constructor of the underlying type.

* `strong::equality` provides operators `==` and `!=`. The strong type can be
  then compared for equality or inequality.

* `strong::equality_with<Ts...>` provides operators `==` and `!=` between the
  strong type and each of the types `Ts...`. Note! While `Ts` can include
  other strong types, it can not refer to the strong type being defined. Use
  `strong::equality` for that.

* `strong::ordered` provides operators '<', '<=', '>=' and '>'. The strong type
  offers the same ordering relatin as the underlying type.

* `strong::ordered_with<Ts...>` provides operators '<', '<=', '>=' and '>'
  between the strong type and each of the types `Ts...`. Note! While `Ts` can
  include other strong types, it cannot refer to the strong type being defined.
  Use `strong::ordered` for that.
  
* `strong::semiregular`. This gives you default constructible, move/copy
  constructible, move/copy assignable and swappable. A decent default for
  many types.

* `strong::regular`. Same as `semiregular` and also equality comparable. A good
  default base for most types.

* `strong::unique`. Make the type move constructible and move assignable but
  not copy constructible nor copy assignable.
  
* `strong::ostreamable`, `strong::istreamable`, `strong::iostreamable`, which
  provide the default iostream integrations (as handled by the underlying
  type.) Provide your own operators instead if you prefer that.

* `strong::incrementable`, `strong::decrementable`, `strong::bicrementable`.
  Support `operator++` and `operator--`. *bicrementable* is obviously a made-
  up word for the occasion, but I think its meaning is clear.

* `strong::boolean` provides `explicit operator bool() const`, providing the
  underlying type supports it.

* `strong::convertible_to<Ts...>` provides an `explicit operator Ts() const`
   for each type `Ts`, providing the underlying type supports it.

* `strong::implicitly_convertible_to<Ts...>` provides an `operator Ts() const`
   for each type `Ts`, providing the underlying type supports it.
   
* `strong::hashable` allows `std::hash<>` on the type (forwards to the
  underlying type,) to allow use in `std::unordered_set<>` and
  `std::unordered_map<>`

* `strong::difference` allows instances to be subtracted and added (yielding a
  `strong::difference`,) divided (yielding the base type), or multiplied or
  divided with the base type, yielding another `strong::difference`, and if 
  the underlying type supports it, the remainder after division of two
  differences yields the underlying type, and the remainder after division of
  a difference and the underlying type yields a difference.
  A `strong::difference` is also `strong::ordered`

* `strong::affine_point<D>` allows instances to be subtracted (yielding a `D`) or
  to add or subtract a `D` to an instance.
  See [Affine Space](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Affine_space). Examples of
  one dimentional affine points are pointer (with `D` being `ptrdiff_t`,) or
  `std::time_point<>` (with `std::duration<>` as `D`.) An example of a
  multidimensional affine point is a coordinate (with a vector type for `D`.)
  `D` can be defaulted, using `strong::affine_point<>`, in which case the
  difference type shares the same tag.
  It is natural that `D` is of a `strong::difference` type. This is a good name
  from a mathematical point of view, but perhaps a bit too academic, and not
  well aligned with the other names.

* `strong::pointer` allows `operator*` and `operator->`, and comparisons with
  `nullptr` providing the underlying type supports it.

* `strong::arithmetic` allows addition, subtraction, multiplication, division
  and remainder of instances.

* `strong::bitarithmetic` allows bitwise `&`, bitwise `|`, bitwise `^` and
  shift operations.

* `strong::indexed<D>` allows use of the subscript operator[] on type `D`.
  This also allows member function `at(D)`, providing the underlying type
  supports it. A lame version `indexed<>` allows subscript on any type that
  works.

* `strong::iterator` adds functionality needed depending on iterator category.
  If the iterator type is a `random_access_iterator`, the strong type
  is `strong::indexed<>` and `strong::affine_point<difference_type>`. It should be
  possible to specify the index type and affine_point type.

* `strong::range` adds the functionality needed to iterate over the elements.
  the iterator types are using the same tag as using in the range. Only
  implements types `iterator` and `const_iterator`, and thus `.begin()`,
  `.end()`, `.cbegin()`, `.cend()`, `.begin() const` and `.end() const`.
    
For modifier `strong::arithmetic`, the type trait `std::is_arithmetic<>` is true.

For modifier `strong::iterator`, the type trait `std::iterator_traits` mirrors
the traits of the underlying iterator type.

# Miscellaneous:
* `strong::type` provides a non-member `swap()` function as a friend, which
   swaps underlying values using.
  
* `strong::underlying_type<Type>` is `T` for `strong::type<T, Tag, Ms...>` and
   public descendants, and `Type` for other types.
      
* `strong::uninitialized` can be used to construct instances of `strong::type<T...>`
  without initializing the value. This is only possible if the underlying type
  is [`trivially default constructible`](
  https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/default_constructor), for example:
  ```C++
  void init(int*);
  void function() {
      strong::type<int, struct int_tag> x(strong::uninitialized);
      // x will have an unspecified value
      init(&value_of(x)); // hopefully the init() function assigns a value
  }
  ```
  
To build the self-test program:

```bash
cmake <strong_type_dir> -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
cmake --build . --target self_test
```

N.B. Microsoft Visual Studio MSVC compiler < 19.22 does not handle `constexpr`
correctly. Those found to cause trouble are disabled for those versions.

## Other libraries:
 
| Library                                             | Author |
|-----------------------------------------------------|-------------------|
| [type_safe](https://github.com/foonathan/type_safe) | Jonathan Müller   |
| [NamedType](https://github.com/joboccara/NamedType) | Jonathan Boccara  |
| [strong_typedef](https://github.com/anthonywilliams/strong_typedef) | Anthony Williams (justsoftwaresolutions) |

## Presentations about defining and using strong types

|   |   |
|---|---|
| [![Strong Types for Strong Interfaces](https://img.youtube.com/vi/WVleZqzTw2k/mqdefault.jpg)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/WVleZqzTw2k/mqdefault.jpg) | Jonathan Boccara from MeetingC++ 2017 |
| [![Strong Types in C++](https://img.youtube.com/vi/fWcnp7Bulc8/mqdefault.jpg)](https://youtu.be/fWcnp7Bulc8) | Barney Dellar from C++OnSea 2019 |
| [![Type Safe C++? - LOL! - ;-)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/SWHvNvY-PHw/mqdefault.jpg)](https://youtu.be/SWHvNvY-PHw) | Björn Fahller from ACCU 2018 |
| [![Curiously Coupled Types](https://img.youtube.com/vi/msi4WNQZyWs/mqdefault.jpg)](https://youtu.be/msi4WNQZyWs) | Adi Shavit & Björn Fahller from NDC{Oslo} 2019 |

Discussions, pull-requests, flames are welcome.

[@bjorn_fahller](https://twitter.com/bjorn_fahller)
